Make sure your hands are clean before you settle in for your meal. If you washed your hands right before you arrived, you’ll likely be able to skip this step, but if it’s been a while, head to the restroom and give your hands a good scrub. 
If you get an important phone call, excuse yourself from the table to take it, so you don’t disturb any other guests. 
Wait for everyone to be seated before touching your table setting.
If you’re at a dinner party, let everyone (including the host) take their seats before touching your place setting and moving things around. The same goes for a restaurant.
If there isn’t assigned seating, give the guest of honor or the host the best seat at the table (usually the head of the table). Everyone else can sit wherever they’d like.
Always sit down and stand up from the dining chair on the right side in a restaurant or at a formal dinner.
If there’s a lady sitting on either side of you and you’d like to be chivalrous, you can also help her get seated. Pull her chair back, then push it in as she starts sitting.
If there's a host or a hostess, wait to put the napkin on your lap until after the host or hostess does. If there's no host or hostess, when you sit down, you can just put the napkin on your lap. 
To place the napkin on your lap, simply fold the napkin in half, then place it on your lap with the folded end closest to your waist.
If you need to step out during the meal for any reason, don’t put your napkin on the table. Put it on your chair, because no one wants to see a soiled napkin where they’re eating.
Keep your elbows off the table, and don’t slouch.
When you settle in to eat, maintain good posture with your back straight, and tuck your elbows in by your sides. Putting your elbows on the table takes up a lot of space, and it’s considered bad manners.
Pass all food dishes to the right.
If you’re serving your own food from family-style dishes, scoop a serving of the food onto your plate, then hand the dish to the person on your right. 
Don’t reach across anyone to get food. Politely ask them to pass you a dish if you’d like to serve yourself some. 
The person closest to a plate should first offer to the person on the left, serve themselves and then pass food to the right.
If you’re the first person to grab a roll from a bread basket or to cut into a loaf, serve yourself a piece, then offer one to the person on your left before passing it on to the person on your right.
The bread plate will likely be placed on the upper right-hand corner of your place setting, with the butter knife placed diagonally across it. Use the bread plate and butter knife to eat your bread and butter before the meal.
The salad fork and dinner fork should be on the left side of your plate. The salad fork is smaller and placed on the outside, while the dinner fork is larger and placed nearest to the plate.
Your dinner plate (and potentially a smaller plate or two for appetizer courses) will be in the center of your place setting.
Your dinner knife should be placed on the right side, directly next to your plates.
The teaspoon (which is smaller) should be right next to the dinner knife, then the soup spoon (which is larger) will be placed next to the soup spoon. Use the soup spoon to eat soup that’s served as an appetizer, and use the teaspoon to stir any tea or coffee you have after dinner.
The dessert spoon and dessert fork should be placed directly above your plate. Use them to eat your dessert course.
Your water glass and wine glass (if you’re drinking wine) will be placed on the top right side of your place setting.
Use the utensils from the outside in.
Fine dining place settings may have more than one set of utensils. If you aren’t sure which one to use, a good rule of thumb is to work from the outside in as you have each course. The utensils from the outside in on your left side will likely be a salad fork, a dinner fork, then a dessert fork. On your right, you'll likely have a soup spoon on the outside, then a tea spoon, then a dinner knife.
Pick up your fork in your left hand and your knife in your right hand, and you cut about four to five small bites. You never cut the whole thing at one time. After cutting a few bites, put the knife on the edge of your plate and switch your fork from the left to the right hand, then you eat each small piece, one at a time slowly.
In the United States the salad fork is traditionally the outer most utensil on the left side. This is because you start from the outside and work your way in and salad is typically one of the first courses.
Try this clever trick to remember where your bread plate and drink are located. With your thumb and forefingers create a “b” for bread with your left hand, and a “d” for drink in your right hand.
At a dinner party or formal restaurant meal, you don’t want to be scarfing down your food very fast. Take your time, and try to pace yourself so you’re eating at about the same speed as the other guests. 
Cut a few small bites of food at a time, then eat each of them before cutting more.
If you’re eating a roll or a slice of bread, tear off a small piece and butter it individually, rather than buttering the whole roll or slice at once. 
Don’t blow on your food if it’s too hot. Instead, wait a few minutes until it’s cooled down enough to eat it comfortably.
Placing the napkin in your lap is the first thing you do when seated at a table. Never crumple your napkin into a ball or wear your napkin as a bib.
Chew with your mouth closed.
Try not to show anyone your food as you chew, and don’t talk with your mouth full. If you want to say something, finish chewing your bite of food completely and swallow it before speaking up.
Salt and pepper should never be separated from one another. Even if an individual only asks for just one, always give them both.
Salt and pepper shakers should be held at the base, making sure your fingers are not anywhere near the tops. When passing the salt and pepper, set them down between you and the person to your right.
You want to use the napkin to tap your mouth. You don't want to rub it. It's just a very subtle tap. For example, if you take a bit of soup or a dish with a lot of sauce on it and you get some around your mouth, simply pick up your napkin and gently dab around your lips, then place the napkin back in your lap.
Use your napkin to cover any burps, as well. If you feel a burp coming on, quickly cover your mouth with your napkin and keep your mouth closed so it isn’t loud. When you’re done, just say “excuse me” and keep eating.
If you are going to fart, simply excuse yourself discreetly, and step away outside or to a restroom.
Don’t use your napkin to blow your nose at the table. This is unsanitary and unpleasant at a formal dinner. If you need to blow your nose, excuse yourself politely and head to the bathroom.
Place your utensils on your plate when taking a break. If you’re taking a short break from eating or waiting for the next course, cross your utensils on your plate. Place the fork on the left side with the tines (spikes) facing downwards, and place the knife on the right side with the blade facing towards you. Angle them so they’re forming an inverted V shape. This will signal that you’re just taking a quick break, and that you’re not finished eating yet, so your plate won’t be cleared.
When you eat soup, it should always be ladled away from you in a small scooping motion.
You may not pick up and drink your soup unless it meets both of the following criteria: The soup is served in a small cup without a large lip around the outside, and all of the solids (vegetables, chicken, etc.) must be gone with only the broth left.
When finished with your soup, your soup spoon should be placed on the plate that the soup was served on. Never leave your spoon sitting in the empty bowl.
Hold the utensil like you would a pencil. It should be resting between the tips of your pointer finger and middle finger with your thumb on top to hold it in place. The end of the utensil should be resting on the webbing of your hand. Or, hold the utensil like you would a surgeon’s scalpel. The tines of the utensil should face downward. Your pointer finger will press on the back of the neck and the end of the handle should be touching the center of your palm. Your remaining fingers grasp the utensil to hold it in place.
To cut your food, use the knife as you need while using the fork in your off hand to steady your food. Then, place your knife down with the blade facing toward you. Switch your fork to the other hand, and eat with the tines facing up.
Don’t spit out food. An “Unidentified Food Object” should be removed from your mouth using the same utensil you used to put it in your mouth. Once discreetly removed, the object may be placed on the side of your plate. Never place a U.F.O. in your napkin.
If you have a meal as part of a job/interview, your employers want to see how you conduct yourself in a social situation. It is likely that your manners will be closely scrutinized, especially if your job requires a certain standard of conduct with clients and colleagues. Be careful!
Do not remove your jacket unless your host does. If you are extremely hot, you may ask the hosts permission to remove your jacket but remember some restaurants require a sport coat.
Your cell phone should not be part of the dining experience, it should be put on silent and left out of sight. Checking them at the table implies that you have something more important going on than conversing with or listening to your hosts and is considered rude.
You are responsible for conversation with your triangle: the person on your left, the person on your right, and the person directly across from you. 
When ordering something to drink, water, juice, or iced tea is acceptable. Additionally, so is one glass of wine. Coffee or hot tea is acceptable after the meal, but limit yourself to one or two sugar packets.
When ordering something to eat, avoid finger food and messy foods like spaghetti. If it is a fixed menu, simply accept what you are served graciously, and even if you don’t like the food, never refuse it. 
If your boss asks you to order wine, and you don’t feel you know enough about it, look at the menu and then ask the waiter for a recommendation.
Never use your own utensils to serve food out of a communal dish.
Plates are served on your left and removed from your right. 
If the salad contains leaves that are too big to eat, use your salad fork to cut them into smaller pieces. If that doesn't work, use your dinner knife. Only use the knife when all other methods have failed because you'll also need that knife for the main course, and after you've used it for the salad, there's no place to put it so that it doesn't also disappear with the salad plate.
Never season your food before trying it.
When offering or making a toast, be prepared and simple. Always stand when offering a toast and do not bang on your glass to get attention. If a toast is being given to you, never stand or drink and always say thank you. 
Allow the host to make a toast to the guest of honor first, and if they do not, ask his/her permission to offer the toast. Never refuse to participate, you can always use an empty glass or non-alcoholic beverage.
Dining Etiquette is the collection of traditions regarding proper behavior in a formal dining situation. They play an important role in making a favorable impression, and are essential to professional success. 
During introductions, introduce individuals to each other using both first and last names. If an individual has a title, such as “doctor,” include the title as well as the first and last name. Introduce the younger or less prominent individuals to the older or more prominent person first. 
Name tags should be placed on the right hand side of your front shoulder area, because when shaking hands it allows for a natural progression for the eyes to the name tag. 
Make sure you’re polite and respectful to everyone around you when you ask them to pass you food or hand you more bread. 
If you’re being served your food at a restaurant, say thank you to the servers as they bring you items.
Once you’ve finished, place your fork and knife next to each other on your plate. If you picture your plate as a clock, the tines (spikes) of your fork and the tip of your knife should be pointing toward 10:00, and the handles should be pointing toward 5:00, so that they’re in a diagonal position.
If you need to excuse yourself to the restroom, just say, “excuse me, I’ll be right back.” No need to elaborate on where you’re going.
Do not correct the table manners of other people. That is also impolite.
If you're at a dinner or party and it's buffet style, don't overload your plate. You can always get more, but it's impolite to waste food or stuff yourself with a huge pile of food.
Don't ask for seconds until you are done with everything on your plate. It's rude if someone is feeding you and you waste their food.
It’s always polite to wait to drink until all the glasses have been filled.
In a more formal setting, the person who invites pays. When in doubt, offer to foot the bill, and allow the other person to decline.
Two friends going out to lunch should split the bill.
To avoid awkward moments when you’re out to dinner with a group, ask for separate checks when you place your order.
If you want to pick up the whole tab, discreetly let the server know in advance and give them your credit card.
I suggest you tip well: 15% minimum, 20% average and 25%-plus for exemplary service.
At a dinner party, don’t jump the gun and start clearing the table before the host has made the first move.
Always offer to help, and allow your host to either accept or decline.
You may refresh your lipstick at the table, but leave it at that. It isn’t appropriate to apply other makeup, floss or pick your teeth.
It’s always better to be slightly overdressed than underdressed, as it shows respect for your hosts and the event.
Your free hand should rest in your lap while you are not using it, if dining in an American Style. For a Continental Style, however, you should rest your wrists on the table, while remaining neat. 
When you need to remove a piece of crab shell, or an olive pit, use your fingers.
When drinking red wine, hold the bowl of the wine glass. When drinking white wine, however, hold the stem of the wine glass. 
If you DO order a messier pasta meal, be sure you twist the pasta onto your fork, don’t scoop or stab at it. Try to get only as much as will comfortably fit in your mouth without straining. 
When leaving the table, either when excused or at the end of the meal, exit your chair on the right side. Always remember to push your chair in!
When setting up a meal with a client, choose a convenient restaurant that the client will enjoy, and be sure to specify the meeting place to your client. The day before your meeting, call your client to confirm the details of your meeting.
When meeting a client for a meal, always arrive first. For added polish, give the restaurant your card before the client arrives, set a tip amount, and instruct that the bill should not be brought to the table. Walk to your table behind your client, and be sure your client gets the best seat when they arrive.
Guide your guest’s ordering, but be sure they order first. A perceptive guest won’t order the most expensive thing on the menu unless directed to do so. Order something similar to your guest to ensure they feel comfortable.
Table manners are the social customs used while eating and drinking in a group setting. While different cultures have established different eating rituals, in general the rules pursue similar goals, with focus on cleanliness, consideration for other diners, and the unity of the group sharing the meal.
My name is Ms. Manners.
At a large gathering, there might be place cards to help you find your seat.
When you arrive, greet everyone with a firm handshake and introduce yourself to anyone you do not know.
If you have a bag, place it at the back of your seat. 
If you have a purse, place it on your lap under your napkin or discreetly on the floor beside you, rather than on the table or the back of your chair. 
Avoid crossing your legs or moving them excessively. Keep your feet flat on the ground to maintain stability and prevent fidgeting.
Keep your hands in your lap when not eating, and place them lightly on the table when you are.
Avoid asking your server to explain everything on the menu, unless you have a particular food allergy or sensitivity.
It’s considered impolite to order the most expensive item on the menu, especially if someone else is paying.
In larger groups, it’s okay to have multiple conversations happening at once. Don’t feel the need to control or participate in every discussion. 
For Red Wine hold the glass by the bowl to warm the wine slightly, which releases the aromas.
For white wine hold the glass by the stem to keep the wine cool.
If your meat has bones, use your knife and fork to carefully separate the meat from the bones.
Even if you don’t like a dish, refrain from making negative remarks.